<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html lang="en" class="webkit chrome mac js" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta name="generator" content="HTML Tidy for Linux (vers 24 July 2007), see www.w3.org"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
    <title>FDA Investigates Safety Of Type 2 Diabetes Drugs Januvia And
Byetta Medical News Today</title>
    <meta property="og:url" content="http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/257705.php"/>
    <meta property="og:title" content="FDA Investigates Safety Of Type 2 Diabetes Drugs Januvia And Byetta"/>
    <meta name="description" property="og:description" content="The U.S. Food and Drug Administration is investigating whether or not the diabetes type 2 drugs Januvia and Byetta increase the risk of developing pancreatic cancer."/>
    <meta property="og:type" content="article"/>
    <meta property="og:site_name" content="Medical News Today"/>
    <meta property="fb:admins" content="1658973110"/>
    <meta property="fb:app_id" content="147184211975697"/>
    <meta name="og:image" content="http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/content/categories/diabetes/thumbs/image3.jpg"/>
    <meta name="rating" content="general"/>
    <meta http-equiv="Cache-Control" content="no-cache"/>
    <meta http-equiv="bulletin-text" content="Copyright"/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/257705.php"/>
  </head>
  <body id="written" class="article v1" data-twttr-rendered="true" style="">
<div itemscope="" itemtype="http://schema.org/NewsArticle">
<div class="container">
<div class="row site_header">
<div class="eightcol main_content">
<h1 itemprop="headline">FDA Investigates Safety Of Type 2 Diabetes
Drugs Januvia And Byetta</h1>
<div id="article_date" class="screen_only">Last updated:  Friday 15
March 2013 at 12am PST  </div>
<hr class="article_heading_bottom"/>
<div class="article_body">
<div itemprop="articleBody"><b>The U.S. Food and Drug
Administration is investigating whether or not the Type 2 Diabetes
drugs Januvia (from Merck) and Byetta (from Bristol-Myers Squibb)
are associated with an increased risk of developing pancreatic
cancer.</b><br/>
<br/>
 Close to 25 million people in the United States have <a href="/info/diabetes/" title="What is Diabetes?" class="keywords">diabetes</a>, <a href="http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/257363.php">costing the
country an estimated $245 billion a year</a>. There's been a huge
rise in the number of treatment options over the last few years.
Many patients have to take more than one drug to stabilize their
blood sugar levels and insulin.<br/>
<br/>
 However, the safety of all these new diabetes medications is still
under thorough investigation, the FDA informs.<br/>
<br/>
 Data from <a href="http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/257103.php">a report in
<i>JAMA's Internal Medicine</i> indicated that patients who took
the diabetes drugs Januvia and Byetta were at a much greater risk
of developing pancreatitis</a> compared to those who didn't.<br/>
<br/>
 Januvia is an oral antihyperglycemic, it is either used alone or
in combination with other oral antihyperglycemic agents, such as
metmorfin. Byetta is a glucagon-like peptide-1 agonist administered
twice a day as a subcutaneous injection.<br/>
<br/>
 <b>The FDA is looking at all the medications belonging to a class
of drugs called incretin mimetics</b> (which includes Victoza and
others), which stimulate the production of insulin.<br/>
<br/>
 Following the results of a study carried out last month that
analyzed insurance records, Merck and Bristol were quick to state
the safety of their drugs. Merck even said they found "no
compelling evidence establishing a causal relationship" between
Januvia and <a href="/articles/160459.php" title="What is chronic pancreatitis? What causes chronic pancreatitis?" class="keywords">pancreatitis</a> or <a href="/info/pancreatic-cancer/" title="What is Pancreatic Cancer?" class="keywords">pancreatic cancer</a>.<br/>
<br/>
 In 2007, the FDA added information to the labels of Byetta about
its association with pancreatitis and in 2009 the agency did the
same with Januvia and Janumet.<br/>
<br/>
 The FDA said:<br/>
<br/>

<blockquote>"The FDA has not concluded these drugs may cause or
contribute to the development of pancreatic cancer. At this time,
patients should continue to take their medicine as directed until
they talk to their health care professional."</blockquote>
<br/>
 Some analysts believe that the investigation won't have much of an
impact on the sales of the drug, given that past investigations
haven't resulted in drastic changes. They believe that the most the
FDA will do is add more warnings about the increased risk of
pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer.<br/>
<br/>
 Merck would be impacted the most by the findings; last year the
drug Januvia generated sales of more than $4 billion and it's
sister drug Janumet generated a further $1.65 billion for the
company.<br/>
<br/>
 The drug Byetta only generated sales of $310 million last year for
the three companies that share the drug; BMS, AstraZeneca and Eli
Lilly.<br/>
<br/>
 The FDA concluded:<br/>
<br/>

<blockquote>"At this time, patients should continue to take their
medicine as directed until they talk to their health care
professional, and health care professionals should continue to
follow the prescribing recommendations in the drug
labels."</blockquote>
<br/>
 Written by Joseph Nordqvist</div>
</div>
<p><strong>Copyright:</strong> Medical News Today<br/>
<span class="screen_only"><em>Not to be reproduced without permission.</em></span></p>
<div id="article_tabs">
<div class="centered">
<ul class="nav">
      <li class="nav-tab"><a href="#references" class="current">References</a></li>
      <li class="nav-tab"><a href="#additional">Additional
information</a></li>
      <li class="nav-tab"><a href="#citations">Citations</a></li>
    </ul>
<div class="list-wrap">
<div style="margin-left: 2em" id="references">
<p><a href="http://www.fda.gov/Drugs/DrugSafety/ucm343187.htm" target="_blank" rel="nofollow"><i>"FDA Drug Safety Communication:
FDA investigating reports of possible increased risk of
pancreatitis and pre-cancerous findings of the pancreas from
incretin mimetic drugs for type 2 diabetes"</i></a><br/>
<br/>
<a href="http://www.mercknewsroom.com/news/company-statements/merck-stands-behind-safety-profile-januvia-sitagliptin" target="_blank" rel="nofollow">Merck Stands Behind the Safety
Profile of JANUVIA® (sitagliptin)</a><br/>
<br/>
U.S. Food and Drug Administration</p>
</div>
<div id="additional" class="hide" style="display: none; left: 0px; margin-left: 2em; position: relative; top: 0px">
<p>Visit our <a href="/categories/diabetes" title="Visit our Diabetes category page">Diabetes</a> category page for
the latest news on this subject.</p>
</div>
<div id="citations" class="hide last" style="display: none; left: 0px; margin-left: 2em; position: relative; top: 0px">
<p>Please use one of the following formats to cite this article in
your essay, paper or report:</p>
<p><strong>MLA</strong><br/>
 Nordqvist, Joseph. "FDA Investigates Safety Of Type 2 Diabetes
Drugs Januvia And Byetta." <i>Medical News Today</i>. MediLexicon,
Intl., 15 Mar. 2013. Web.<br/>
30 Apr. 2015. </p>
<hr size="1"/>
<p><strong>APA</strong><br/>
 Nordqvist, J. (2013, March 15). "FDA Investigates Safety Of Type 2
Diabetes Drugs Januvia And Byetta." <i>Medical News Today</i>.
Retrieved from<br/>
<a href="http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/257705.php" itemprop="url">http://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/257705.php</a>.</p>
<hr size="1"/>
<p>Please note: If no author information is provided, the source is
cited instead.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
